+++
date = '2026-01-24T20:36:27-05:00'
title = 'The Internet Sucks'
+++
The internet is already a corporate mess, the only popular websites among normies are all of the mainstream social media websites like YouTube, Reddit, Facebook, Instagram, and many others that are popular. Not to mention that these websites are now infested with A.I. "slop" content and will eventually have even more of it soon, eventually the A.I. content will surpass human made content. I would argue this is already happening normies are already consuming A.I. content and in some cases cannot even tell if it is real or not, oh but why does it matter? Consume whatever you want for "entertainment" I do not really see a problem, I just think it is sad that the internet became so corporate with only a few websites dominating the entire internet traffic and even human traffic is now being surpassed by A.I. or random scraper bots. I do not really see using the mainstream internet (most of the mainstream internet is literally just social media) recreationally as worth it anymore, despite this I still find myself using it sometimes, I only visit a few websites and I slowly visit them less and less. I think there will be a certain time where I will stop using the internet when it becomes so bad that all of the good websites disappear, the websites used for things like piracy will eventually face legal actions, I have already seen some articles on some websites being taken down (feel free to find them on your own time) people like Cloudflare are becoming more stricter and more bad in terms of services being offered as if nearly half of the internet does not depend on Cloudflare. The World Wide Web in it of itself is just being held together by string and ducktape, it is a fragile piece of technology as we have seen many times but this is mostly due to everyone using the same technology and not utilising alternative pieces of software or technologies. Maybe the Gopher communications protocol is not so bad, for those who do not know this is the alternative to this thing we call the "World Wide Web" its nothing too impressive but at least it exists.

# Personal Stuff

I am seeing improvements when I started using the internet less, and I am sure others will too, I was not really that online but when I was younger definitely because I had way more time, now I have a schedule that I follow strictly so that I somewhat stay productive. I know a few people in real life but I usually just talk to them on the internet but lately I have not been talking to that many people because I feel a bit drained from social interaction, I just want to be left alone. I kind of hate talking to people and I used to just hate and avoid other people in general. I like to be alone and not have to interact with anyone, but unfortunately in a lot of cases I still have to talk to someone when I do some things in life but those are small things. I think I might have lost a few friends but I do not really care, I want to keep my friendship circle small so I do not have to deal with so many people at the same time. I am currently focusing on myself, I recently read Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche's book called "Beyond Good and Evil," with enough context I was able to understand it. The book taught me a lot about philosophy, I am planning to read more and use the internet less.
